[249. Group Shifted Strings](https://leetcode.com/problems/group-shifted-strings/description/)

* Array, Hash Table, String
* Facebook, Amazon, Google


## 想法
We need to design a hash function, which maps all possible values to a unique key. For example, mapping both `bcd` and `cde` to `abc`.

## Algorithm
1. Iterate over the string array `strings`, and for each string:
    1. Find its hash value, that is, the string starts with an `a` after some shifts. The value of `shift` is equal to the first character of the string. Note that we also have to do a mod of 26 on the resulting character for the circular shift.
    一个string的hash value就是一个经过一些shift之后，以`a`开头的string。比如，`bcd`经过一些shift之后，以`a`开头的string，就是`abc`。相应的`shift`的值就是`b`, 然后 `b % 26`。
    2. Map the original string to the above hash value in the map `mapHashToList` 即map `bcd` to `abc`.
2. Iterate over the `mapHashToList` and store the list for every key.

## Note
Modulo operator `%` behaves differently in C++/Java and Python. The difference lies in the operator implementation:
* C++/Java: `a % b = a - int(a/b)*b`. For example, `13 % 26 = 13 - int(13/26)*26 = 13 - 0 = 13`
* Python: `a % b = a - floot(a/b)*b`

## Method 1. Hashing
**Intuition:**
To make every string the same, the first character in all strings will also have to be the same.
Hence, we will first convert the first character of all the strings to any character, let's say `a`.

```Java
class Solution {
    public List<List<String>> groupStrings(String[] strings) {
        Map<String, List<String>> map = new HashMap<>();

        // Create a hash value (hashKey) for each string and append the string
        // to the list of hash values, i.e. map["abc"] = ["abc", "bcd"]
        for(String str: strings) {
            String hashKey = getHash(str);
            if(!map.containsKey(hashKey)) {
                map.put(hashKey, new ArrayList());
            }
            map.get(hashKey).add(str);
        }

        return new ArrayList(map.values());
    }

    private String getHash(String s) {
        char[] chars = s.toCharArray();

        // Calculate the number of shifts to make the first character to be 'a'
        int shift = chars[0];
        for(int i=0; i<chars.length; i++) {
            chars[i] = shiftLetter(chars[i], shift);
        }

        return String.valueOf(chars);
    }

    private char shiftLetter(char letter, int shift) {
        return (char)((letter - shift + 26) % 26 + 'a');
    }
}
```
**Complexity Analysis:** Let `N` be the length of strings and `K` be the maximum length of a string in strings.
1. Time complexity: `O(N·K)`
    * We iterate over all NNN strings and for each string, we iterate over all the characters to generate the Hash value, which takes `O(K)` time. To sum up, the overall time complexity is `O(N * K)`.
2. Space complexity: `O(N * K)`
    * We need to store all the strings plus their Hash values in `mapHashToList`. In the worst scenario, when each string in the given list belongs to a different Hash value, the maximum number of strings stored in `mapHashToList` is `2 * N`. Each string takes at most `O(K)` space. Hence the overall space complexity is `O(N * K)`.

Note: The time and space complexity for both solutions are same because the `getHash()` function has the same time and space complexity, `O(K)`.


## Reference
* https://leetcode.com/problems/group-shifted-strings/editorial/
* [CNoodle: [LeetCode] 249. Group Shifted Strings](https://www.cnblogs.com/cnoodle/p/12830667.html)
